<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
                <!DOCTYPE html [
                <!ENTITY cp_businessObjectClass "Rollup Guidance for ISM">
                <!ENTITY cp_object "ISM-Rollup">
                <!ENTITY cp_objectCaseSensitive "IsmRollup">]><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
      <title>&cp_object; v2021-NOV Package Description </title>
   </head>
    <body>
        <h1 style="text-align:center">UNCLASSIFIED</h1>
        <h1>&cp_object; v2021-NOV Package Description </h1>
        <p>&cp_businessObjectClass; (&cp_object;)
            consists of many files all packaged here for you. This is a simple guide to the layout
            of this package. Before attempting to follow the links in this guide, please ensure that
            you have extracted the files from the zip file; otherwise, the links will not work.
        </p>
        <p id="STANDALONE_INTRO">As this is the standalone package, none of 
            the dependent specifications will be included and you will have to assemble 
            the full package with an acceptable version of the dependent specifications 
            that you wish to use.</p>       
        <ul>
            <li id="PACKAGE_CONTENTS">
                <p>CONTENTS</p>
                <p>The following components may be included in the package:</p>
                <ul>
                    <!--li><p>XYZ*_DED.pdf</p>
                        <p>A single human friendly document representation of the data element
                            dictionary for the XYZ Specification</p></li-->
                    <li>
                  <p>XYZ*_Rules.pdf</p>
                        <p>A single human friendly document representation of all the 
                            Schematron rules for the XYZ Specification</p>
               </li>
                    <li>
                  <p>XYZ*_Schema.pdf</p>
                        <p>A single human friendly document representation of the schema for the XYZ
                            Specification</p>
               </li>
                    <li>
                  <p>XYZ*_XSL.pdf</p>
                        <p>A single human friendly document representation of all the 
                            XSLs for the XYZ Specification</p>
               </li>
                    <li>
                  <p>XYZ*_XSPEC.pdf</p>
                        <p>A single human friendly document representation of all the 
                            XSPECs for the XYZ Specification</p>
               </li>
                    <li>
                  <p>XYZ*CVEnums.pdf</p>
                        <p>A single human friendly document representation of all the 
                            Common Value Enumeration Tokens and their Descriptions for the XYZ 
                            Specification</p>
               </li>
                    <li>
                  <p>XYZ*Examples.pdf</p>
                        <p>A single human friendly document representation of all the 
                            included examples for the XYZ Specification</p>
               </li>
                    <li>
                  <p>Des*Xml.pdf</p>
                        <p>The primary description and implementation guide for the XYZ Data 
                            Encoding Specification</p>
               </li>
                    <li>
                  <p>Ces*Xml.pdf </p>
                        <p>The primary description and implementation guide for the XYZ
                             CVE Encoding Specification</p>
               </li>
                    <li>
                  <p>Annex / FOUO Annex</p>
                        <p>Additional information and guidance for the XYZ 
                            Specification that is either UNCLASSIFIED, but not publicly releasable or 
                            at the U//FOUO level</p>
               </li>
                    <li>
                  <p>SECRET Annex</p>
                        <p>Additional information and guidance for the XYZ Specification, 
                            at the SECRET level (either NOFORN or RELTO)</p>
               </li>
                    <li>
                  <p>TetragraphTaxonomy.pdf</p>
                        <p>A single human friendly document representation of 
                            the Tetragraph Taxonomy XML file</p>
               </li>
                </ul>
            </li>
            
            <!--li id="DED">
                <p>Dictionary</p>
                <p id="DED_STANDALONE">The data element dictionary file to implement this specification excluding dependencies.</p>
                <p id="DED_CONVENIENCE">Complete set of data element dictionary files to implement this specification including 
                    all required dependencies and their respective PDF copy (if they exist since PDFs only exist 
                    for IC-maintained specifications).</p>
            </li>
            <li id="DED_NO_DED">
                <p>Dictionary</p>
                <p>This specification does not include a data element dictionary file. If dependent specifications have dictionary files, 
                    they will not be included in this package.  The dependent specification dictionary files may be 
                    obtained from the respective specification package.               
                </p>                
            </li-->
            <li>
            <p>Documentation</p>
                
                <p id="STANDALONE_DES">This 
                    includes the document for this specification and the applicable 
                    signature memo associated with it.</p>
                <ul>
               <li>ISM-Rollup version
                        2021-NOV<ul>
                     <li>
                        <a href="./Documents/ISM-Rollup/DesISMRollupXml.pdf">DesISMRollupXml.pdf</a>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <a href="./Documents/ISM-Rollup/SignatureMemo.pdf">SignatureMemo.pdf</a>
                     </li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
            </ul>
            </li>
            
            <li id="EXAMPLES_NO_SCHEMA">
                <p>Examples</p>
                <p>This specification does not include a schema file and does not include
                    example instance documents.  If dependent specifications have example files, they will not be included
                    in this package.  The dependent specification example files may be obtained from the respective 
                    specification package.               
                </p>                
            </li>
            
            <li id="SCHEMA_NO_SCHEMA">
                <p>Schema</p>
                <p>This specification does not include a schema file. If dependent specifications have schema files, 
                    they will not be included in this package.  The dependent specification schema files may be 
                    obtained from the respective specification package.               
                </p>                
            </li>
            
            
            <li id="SCHEMATRON_NO_SCHEMA">
                <p>Schematron</p>
                <p>This specification does not include a schema file and does not include
                    schematron files.  If dependent specifications have schematron files, they will not be included
                    in this package.  The dependent specification schematron files may be obtained from the respective 
                    specification package.</p>
            </li>
            
            <li id="XSL">
                <p>XSL</p>
                <p id="XSL_STANDALONE">The XSL file to implement this specification excluding dependencies.</p>
                
            <ul>
               <li>
                  <p>ISM-Rollup</p>
                  <ul>
                     <li>
                        <a href="./XSL/ISM-Rollup">ISM-Rollup XSL Files</a>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <a href="./Documents/ISM-Rollup/ISM-Rollup_XSL.pdf">ISM-Rollup_XSL.pdf</a>
                     </li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </li>
            <li id="XSPEC">
                <p>XSPEC</p>
                <p id="XSPEC_STANDALONE">The XSPEC file to implement this specification excluding dependencies.</p>
                
            <ul>
               <li>
                  <p>ISM-Rollup</p>
                  <ul>
                     <li>
                        <a href="./XSPEC/ISM-Rollup">ISM-Rollup XSPEC Files</a>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <a href="./Documents/ISM-Rollup/ISM-Rollup_XSPEC.pdf">ISM-Rollup_XSPEC.pdf</a>
                     </li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </li>
            
            
            <li>
            <p>
               <a href="./manifest.md5">manifest.md5</a>
            </p>
                <p>This file contains an MD5 checksum of every file in the package. It can be used to 
                    determine if any of the files were corrupted in unzipping or if you have modified 
                    a file.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
            <p><a href="./ISM-Rolluppackage.properties">ISM-Rolluppackage.properties</a></p>
                <p>This file contains information concerning the version, classification, and build
                    time for the package.</p>
            </li>
            
            
        </ul>
        <h1 style="text-align:center">UNCLASSIFIED</h1>
    </body>
</html>
