TOP SECRET//SI-G ABCD/TK//RSEN/ORCON/NOFORN/PROPIN

(TS//SI-G ABCD//OC/REL TO USA, NOR) Presidential Documents

(TS//SI-G ABCD//OC/REL TO USA, NOR) Executive Order 12771 of July 25, 1991

(TS//SI/TK//RS/REL TO USA, FVEY) Revoking Earlier Orders With Respect to Kuwait

(TS//SI-G ABCD//OC/REL TO USA, NOR) By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and the United Nations Participation Act (22 U.S.C. 287c).

(TS//SI-G ABCD//OC/REL TO USA, NOR) I, GEORGE BUSH, President of the United States of America, find that the expulsion from Kuwait of Iraq's occupation forces, the restoration of Kuwait to its citizens, and the reinstatement of the lawful Government of Kuwait eliminate the need for Executive Order No. 12723 of August 2, 1990, entitled "Blocking Kuwaiti Government Property," and Executive Order No. 12725 of August 9, 1990, entitled "Blocking Kuwaiti Government Property and Prohibiting Transactions With Kuwait." Those orders were issued to protect the assets of the Government of Kuwait which were subject to United States jurisdiction, and to prevent the transfer of benefits by United States persons to Iraq based upon its invasion of Kuwait. Those orders also implemented the foreign policy and protected the national security of the United States, in conformity with applicable resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. Finding continuation of these orders unnecessary, I hereby order.

(TS//SI/TK//RS/REL TO USA, FVEY) Section 1. Executive Order No. 12723 and Executive Order No. 12725 are hereby revoked. This revocation shall not affect the national emergency declared in Executive Order No. 12722 to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States posed by the policies and action of the Government of Iraq.

(TS//SI-G ABCD//OC/REL TO USA, NOR) Sec. 2. This revocation shall not affect:

(S//RAWFISA//NF) (a) any action taken or proceeding pending and not finally concluded or determined on the effective date of this order;

(TS//SI-G ABCD//OC/REL TO USA, NOR) (b) any action or proceeding based on any act committed prior to the effective date of this order; or

(TS//SI-G ABCD//OC/REL TO USA, NOR) (c) any rights or duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to the effective date of this order.

(U//NF/PR//SBU-NF) Sec. 3. This order shall take effect immediately.

(U//NF/PR//SBU-NF) THE WHITE HOUSE,

(TS//SI-G ABCD//OC/REL TO USA, NOR) July 25. 1991.

(TS//SI-G ABCD//OC/REL TO USA, NOR) G Bush

TOP SECRET//SI-G ABCD/TK//RSEN/ORCON/NOFORN/PROPIN

---

TOP SECRET//SI-G ABCD/TK//RSEN/ORCON/NOFORN/PROPIN/RAWFISA

(S//RAWFISA//NF) NOTICE

(TS//SI-G ABCD//OC/REL TO USA, NOR) CONTINUATION OF IRAQI EMERGENCY

(U//NF/PR//SBU-NF) On August 2, 1990, .by Executive Order No. 12722, I declared a national emergency to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the actions and policies of the Government of Iraq. By Executive Orders Nos. 12722 of August 2 and 12724 of August 9, 1990, I imposed trade sanctions on Iraq and blocked Iraqi government assets. Similar sanctions were imposed against occupied Kuwait by Executive Orders Nos. 12723 and 12725 of August 2 and August 9, 1990, respectively, which were terminated by Executive Order No. 12771 of July 25, 1991. Because the Government of Iraq has continued its activities hostile to U.S. interests in the Middle East, the national emergency declared on August 2, 1990, and the measures adopted on August 2 and August 9, 1990, to deal with that emergency must continue in effect beyond August 2, 1991. Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing the national emergency with respect to Iraq.

(TS//SI/TK//RS/REL TO USA, FVEY) This notice shall be published in the Federal Register and transmitted to the Congress.

(S//RAWFISA//NF) Gg T3l

(S//RAWFISA//NF) THE WHITE HOUSE,

(TS//SI/TK//RS/REL TO USA, FVEY) July 26, 1991.

Classified By: 3269019
Derived From: NSC SCG 22 JUN 1995
Declassify On: 20110503

TOP SECRET//SI-G ABCD/TK//RSEN/ORCON/NOFORN/PROPIN/RAWFISA
