TOP SECRET//BOHEMIA//ATOMAL//FGI NATO//NOFORN/LES

(U//REL TO USA, AUSTRALIA_GROUP//LES) MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

(TS) SUBJECT: Options for the Office of General Administration

(U//REL TO USA, AUSTRALIA_GROUP//LES) 1. During the latter part of August or the first week in September 1990 I met with the DDA and the ADDA regarding the establishment of the Office of General Administration (OGA). During that meeting I mentioned to them that if OGA were simply to encompass the career management function for the MG Career Service that it would be eliminated by a future DDA because an Office-level component is not necessary to perform that function. I asked them to provide me with an opportunity to pursue some possible options with respect to what OGA could be and allow me to report back to them within three months.

(TS) 2. During the period, September - November 1990, I examined a number of alternatives, many aspects of which were submitted, at my request, by concerned MG officers. I discussed a wide variety of options with a number of Agency officials, including DDP&C, the DDO, Deputy Comptroller, etc. Based on my own research and these discussions, I presented the DDA and the ADDA with three options which are covered in detail in the attached memorandum. After providing them with time to read the report, I provided them with a detailed briefing on 4 December 1990. Throughout that session, the focus of the discussion was on my preferred option, i.e. that OGA be eliminated as an Office and that the responsibility for the MG Career Service as well as an expanded focus for administrative support overseas (including career management for the DO's OSOs) be assigned to a reconstituted DA Executive Officer.

(//CTS//BOHEMIA//ATOMAL//OC/REL TO USA, NATO) 3. On 19 December 1990, I was informed by the ADDA that the DDA had decided that OGA would include the career management of the MG Career Service and the Protocol Unit. The ADDA did not convey any rationale for this decision, but mentioned that I could meet with the DDA to discuss this further if I desired.

Classified By: 2-312zs
Derived From: OGA 92 SCG
Declassify On: NA to NATO portions, see source list for NSI portions

TOP SECRET//BOHEMIA//ATOMAL//FGI NATO//NOFORN/LES
