TOP SECRET//SI/TK-IDITAROD//RISK SENSITIVE/CONTROLLED IMAGERY/NOFORN//LES

(U//REL TO USA, AUSTRALIA_GROUP//LES) Nixon Replies To Kennedy's Cuba Denial

(TS//SI/TK-IDIT//RS/IMC/NF) LOS ANGELES, Mar. 22 (AP).--President Kennedy says the issue is closed as far as he is concerned, but former Vice President Nixon has a final word on the secret preparations for a Cuban invasion attempt.

(U//REL TO USA, AUSTRALIA_GROUP//LES) Mr. Nixon issued a statement yesterday in reply to the White House denial that Mr. Kennedy knew, during the 1960 campaign, that the United States was training Cubans for the invasion.

(TS//SI/TK-IDIT//RS/NF) Mr. Nixon's book, "Six Crises," says Mr. Kennedy was aware of the training and endangered United States security by advocating drastic opposition to Fidel Castro.

(U//REL TO USA, AUSTRALIA_GROUP//LES) "President Eisenhower has authorized me to state that he gave instructions that Senator Kennedy was to be as fully briefed on our foreign problems as I was," Mr. Nixon's statement said.

(S//DISPLAY ONLY AFG) "The statements in my book were based not on public press accounts of the briefings President Kennedy received, but on personal conversations with responsible individuals who had knowledge of the facts.

(U//REL TO USA, AUSTRALIA_GROUP//LES) "Because the Cuban issue was such an important one in the campaign, I personally researched the facts relating to it. Beyond that I have no further comment. My book speaks for itself."

(U//REL TO USA, AUSTRALIA_GROUP//LES) The White House has been supported by the Central Intelligence Agency, who briefed the Senator. He said Mr. Nixon was correct, but that he believed the charge was the result of some misunderstanding."

Classified By: A. Blinken, XDEA
Derived From: Multiple Sources
Declassify On: 20320911

TOP SECRET//SI/TK-IDITAROD//RISK SENSITIVE/CONTROLLED IMAGERY/NOFORN//LES
