TOP SECRET//FGI BEL//NOFORN//NODIS

(//BEL TS//REL TO USA, BEL, NATO) ATTACHMENT I

(C//NF//ND) BRIEFING ON LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, AEROSPACE TECHNOLOGY DIVISION

(C//REL TO USA, AUT, JPN, KOR, SWE, FVEY, NATO) PUBLICATIONS PROGRAM

(C//REL TO USA, AUT, JPN, KOR, SWE, FVEY, NATO) ATD is in the Library of Congress for two reasons, both related to the availability of open source publications.

(//BEL TS//REL TO USA, BEL, NATO) The L of C has the largest holdings of Slavic and ChiCom literature in the Western World.

(C//NF//ND) The L of C has, with our help, the most extensive network in the U.S. for obtaining current Soviet, and, to a lesser extent, ChiCom publications.

(C//NF//ND) Almost anybody or any organization can subscribe to the serial publications the Soviet or Chinese Communists make available for export. This is no longer a problem.

(C//REL TO USA, AUT, JPN, KOR, SWE, FVEY, NATO) Here in the L of C we benefit from the exchange agreements the Library has negotiated, over the years, with Soviet libraries, academic institutions, and scientific organizations. Through this channel we obtain Soviet publications not available through normal trade channels.

(C//NF//ND) We also benefit from the Library's blanket order arrangements with both foreign and domestic book dealers. Finally, we benefit from having circulated to us in ATD the many national bibliographies and bookdealer lists received by L of C, for such selections as we wish to make. During the course of a year, we will screen some 1100 national bibliographies, catalogs and book-dealer lists.

(TS) We must, of course, have our own, direct publication procurement program, especially for serial publications, since we need them at the earliest possible date, we need to have full custody of the material, and, in many instances, we require multiple copies. Also, to make certain that we acquire all of the significant monographic material, we need an insurance policy that can be provided only by mobilizing several PPO's 25X1 and book dealers.

(C//REL TO USA, AUT, JPN, KOR, SWE, FVEY, NATO) I might point out here that we have not only the responsibility of acquiring the publications we and FTD require, we have the added responsibility of acquiring those publications needed by our sister division, the Defense Research Division, and the Aeronautical Chart and Information Center.

TOP SECRET//FGI BEL//NOFORN//NODIS

---

TOP SECRET//FGI BEL//NOFORN//NODIS

(C//NF//ND) A word now about the mechanics of our system.

(//BEL TS//REL TO USA, BEL, NATO) A year or so ago, it became apparent that keeping track of some 3000 serial publications that change titles, that may be added or deleted from our STEP master list, that come from different sources and go in different directions, that may or may not be translated cover-to-cover, that have different periodicities, etc., represented a logical opportunity for an automated control system. With FTD's blessing and SDC's technical assistance, we have now placed all of this bibliographical data and control information on tape, the result being that we can obtain print-outs in relation to what we need for a given purpose.

(TS) The basic data base is known as the FJRL - the Foreign Journals Requirement List - and it obviously has everything in it. From this base, we can get a print-out of those titles on the STEP master list.

(//BEL TS//REL TO USA, BEL, NATO) We can get a print-out of the subscription lists for which each PO or book dealer is responsible.

(//BEL TS//REL TO USA, BEL, NATO) We can easily determine the titles that are being translated cover-tocover.

(C//NF//ND) This data base is maintained on a current basis by our acquisitions unit, using punched cards, and the tape is up-dated as required.

(//BEL TS//REL TO USA, BEL, NATO) Fortunately, we have at our disposal, here in the Library, a 1401 computer and a 1403 printer, so that now, with the basic programming having been completed, we are self-sufficient.

(//BEL TS//REL TO USA, BEL, NATO) Turning now to monographic literature, we do supplement the arrangements I have already mentioned by publishing a bi-weekly "priority want list" to our collectors in the field. This list is designed to provide them with the titles we are especially interested in, largely those titles that have been announced in Novi Khnigi or those appearing in Khuizhnia Letopis which we have not received.

(TS) Here, within the Library, we are able to screen all incoming receipts of interest to us for monographic material, and we receive from the Cyrillic Project their entries for serial publications, another device for alerting us to any new serial titles. [A special source of information we sometimes receive comes from having our specialists attend international conferences, at which Soviet delegates bring report-type literature.]

(C//REL TO USA, AUT, JPN, KOR, SWE, FVEY, NATO) Since, as I have indicated, there is no longer any real problem in acquiring serial publications, we confine our accessions list to reflecting the monographic titles received, just as CIA does in publishing its Book List. There is, therefore, an adequate exchange of information, and we make every effort to loan material of interest to others, as other agencies do for us.

(TS) Mention ChiCom problem.

Classified By: Jane M., MIO-3
Derived From: DDT SCG Nov 1985
Declassify On: ???

TOP SECRET//FGI BEL//NOFORN//NODIS
