CONFIDENTIAL//NOFORN//NODIS/SSI

(U//SSI) Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Wednesday - 5 October 1966

(U//SSI) 9. I talked with William Woodruff, Senate Appropriations Committee staff, who showed me the wording of the rider to the Department of State appropriation bill, which will extend all Foreign Service Reserve appointments. I agreed that this covered our problem. He asked that we send a brief letter to Senator Russell withdrawing the action on the USIA rider.

(U//SSI) 10. Talked with Russ Blandford, House Armed Services Committee staff, concerning the feasibility of the Agency or Mr. Blandford discussing with Congressman Durward G. Hall (R., Mo.) the Rodino bill. Mr. Blandford saw no reason why we should not explain this situation to Congressman Hall ourselves, and he thought we would have no difficulty.

(C//NF//ND) 11. Handcarried to Pat Holt, Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, classified[ in response to his earlier request.

(U//SSI) 12. Alerted Captain Meier, in the Office of the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, that we would be briefing the Senate Preparedness Investigating Subcommittee on 6 October as our contribution to the hearings on U.S. worldwide commitments. The subject of our briefing is the nature of the Communist threat.

(C) 13. Attempted to see Representative William Bates to take care of a follow up item which he raised in the course of the Director's briefing of the House Armed Services Committee on Monday. Mr. Bates was not available and I left word I would be in touch with him at a later date.

(C//NF//ND) 14. Met with Al Westphal, House Foreign Affairs Committee staff, to discuss the action being taken in the Senate Appropriations Committee on the State Department appropriation bill, to include a provision extending FSR appointments for the next fiscal year. Westphal said he had learned of State's proposal on this this morning and was glad to see that this item was being taken care of. He did note (as we are well aware) that such an amendment being a legislative item in an appropriation measure is technically subject to a point of order if someone wishes to raise the issue.

(C) Ex/Dir-Compt

(C//NF//ND) JOHN S. WARNER Legislative Counsel

(U//SSI) DD/S

(C) OPPBApprQNed Eo6Release 2004705/12 : CIA-RDR69B00369R000100130011-9

Classified By: Harley S.
Derived From: NNTS-76-2931
Declassify On: 20001103

CONFIDENTIAL//NOFORN//NODIS/SSI
