SECRET//RD-CRITICAL NUCLEAR WEAPON DESIGN INFORMATION//NOFORN/RAWFISA

(S//RD-CNWDI//NF) Page Denied

(S//RD-CNWDI//NF) Nixon Insists Kennedy Was Briefed on Cuba

(S//RD-CNWDI//NF) Former Vice President Confirms Instructions Given to CIA

(S//DISPLAY ONLY AFG) Times Political Writer Former Vice President Nixon said Wednesday his charges that President Kennedy endangered the nation's secret Cuban invasion plans during the 1960 campaign were "personally researched."

(S//RAWFISA//NF) Nixon said he has conferred with former President Eisenhower at Palm Desert and that Gen. Eisenhower told him he had ordered Mr. Kennedy to be briefed on foreign affairs during the campaign.

(S//RD-CNWDI//NF) Kennedy, at his press conference, said the issue as far as he is concerned that Tuesday's statement by the White House and Mr. Dulles were correct and I think that closes the matter." The Cuban issue was that Nixon was "apparently the victim of a misunderstanding."

(S//RAWFISA//NF) Nixon Replies. Nixon said:

(S//RAWFISA//NF) "Because the Cuban issue was such an important one in the campaign, I personally researched the facts relating to it.

(S//DISPLAY ONLY AFG) "The statements in my book 'Six Crises,' were based on the public press, exhaustive briefings

(C//TFNI) President Kennedy received during the campaign of 1960, and on personal whatever, tions with responsible individuals who had knowledge of the facts.

(S//RAWFISA//NF) President Eisenhower has authorized me to state that, following the practice he established in 1956, he had given instructions that in regard to U.S. intelligence activities abroad, Sen. Kennedy was to be as fully briefed on our foreign problems as I was.

(C//TFNI) "Beyond this I have no further comment. My book speaks for itself." He did not name the responsible individuals.

(S//RAWFISA//NF) Charges Recalled Nixon charges that after receiving Central Intelligence Agency briefings on U.S. invasion plans, Mr. Kennedy, in October, 1960, advocated U.S. intervention in Cuba. He contended he was shocked and for the first time in the Presidential campaign got personally angry at then Sen. Kennedy for putting him at a disadvantage. As a result, Nixon said, he was forced to claim the Kennedy position was irresponsible when in fact he had been contending that the Eisenhower administration's position on Cuba was being concealed for the duration of the presidential election. But he insists that he didn't know of an invasion operation until Nov. 18, 1960, when he was briefed at Palm Beach by Allen Dulles, former CIA head, and Richard Bissell of CIA. Dulles supported Mr. Kennedy's disclaimer, saying his pre-election briefings of the President-to-be "did not cover our own government's plans or programs for action, overt or covert."

Classified By: 23021D9
Derived From: 1AD SCG 2002 Jan
Declassify On: N/A to AEA portions, see source list for NSI portions

SECRET//RD-CRITICAL NUCLEAR WEAPON DESIGN INFORMATION//NOFORN/RAWFISA
